docs: cid conversion (#734)
ipfs/ipfs-docs: docs/concepts/content-addressing.md

You can use the first few bytes of the CID to interpret the remainder of the content address and know how to decode the content after being fetched from IPFS. For more details, check out the [CID specification](https://github.com/ipld/cid). It includes a [decoding algorithm](https://github.com/ipld/cid/blob/ef1b2002394b15b1e6c26c30545fd485f2c4c138/README.md#decoding-algorithm) and links to existing software implementations for decoding CIDs.

> If you can't decide between CIDv0 and CIDv1, consider choosing CIDv1 for your new project and opt-in by passing version flag (`ipfs add --cid-version 1`). It is more future-proof and [safe for use in browser contexts](/how-to/address-ipfs-on-web/#subdomain-gateway).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you can't decide between CIDv0 and CIDv1, consider choosing CIDv1 for your new project and opt in by passing a version flag (`ipfs add --cid-version 1`). This is more future-proof and [safe for use in browser contexts](/how-to/address-ipfs-on-web/#subdomain-gateway).
```

> IPFS project will switch to CIDv1 as the new default in the near future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The IPFS project will switch to CIDv1 as the new default in the near future.
```

## CID Inspector

It's easy to explore a CID for yourself. Want to pull apart a specific CID's multibase, multicodec, or multihash info? You can use the [CID Inspector](https://cid.ipfs.io/#QmY7Yh4UquoXHLPFo2XbhXkhBvFoPwmQUSa92pxnxjQuPU) or the [CID Info panel in IPLD Explorer](https://explore.ipld.io/#/explore/QmY7Yh4UquoXHLPFo2XbhXkhBvFoPwmQUSa92pxnxjQuPU) (both links launch using a sample CID) for an interactive breakdown of differently-formatted CIDs.

Check out ProtoSchool's [Anatomy of a CID](https://proto.school/anatomy-of-a-cid) tutorial to see how a single file can be represented in multiple CID versions.

## CID conversion

> Converting from v0 to v1 enables CID to be represented in one of multibase encodings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Converting a CID from v0 to v1 enables it to be represented in multibase encodings.
```

> The default for CIDv1 is case-insensitive `base32`, but use of shorter `base36` is encouraged for IPNS names to ensure same text representation on [subdomains](/how-to/address-ipfs-on-web/#subdomain-gateway).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default for CIDv1 is the case-insensitive `base32`, but use of the shorter `base36` is encouraged for IPNS names to ensure same text representation on [subdomains](/how-to/address-ipfs-on-web/#subdomain-gateway).
```

### v0 to v1

Built-in `ipfs cid format` command can be used on the CLI:

```
$ ipfs cid format -v 1 -b base32 QmbWqxBEKC3P8tqsKc98xmWNzrzDtRLMiMPL8wBuTGsMnR
bafybeigdyrzt5sfp7udm7hu76uh7y26nf3efuylqabf3oclgtqy55fbzdi
```

JS users can also leverage `toV1()` method provided by the [`cids`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cids) library:
```js
const CID = require('cids')
new CID('QmbWqxBEKC3P8tqsKc98xmWNzrzDtRLMiMPL8wBuTGsMnR').toV1().toString()
// → bafybeigdyrzt5sfp7udm7hu76uh7y26nf3efuylqabf3oclgtqy55fbzdi
```

### Text to binary

CID can be represented as both text and a stream of bytes. The latter may be a better choice when speed and storage efficiency are important.

To convert CIDv1 from text to the binary form, simply read the first character

> and then decode the remainder using encoding specified in the [multibase table](https://github.com/multiformats/multibase#multibase-table).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and then decode the remainder using the encoding specified in the [multibase table](https://github.com/multiformats/multibase#multibase-table).
```

> JS users can leverage the [`cids`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cids) library to get binary version as `Uint8Array`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JS users can leverage the [`cids`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cids) library to get a binary version as `Uint8Array`:
```

```js
const CID = require('cids')
new CID('bafybeigdyrzt5sfp7udm7hu76uh7y26nf3efuylqabf3oclgtqy55fbzdi').bytes
// → Uint8Array [ 1, 112,  18,  32, 195, 196, 115,  62, ... ]
```

> ::: warning Be mindful about parsing CID correctly and avoid shortcuts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
::: warning Be mindful about parsing CIDs correctly. Avoid shortcuts.
```

Unless you are the one who imported the data to IPFS, the length of a CID is not deterministic and depends on the length of the Multihash inside of it.

To illustrate, passing a custom hash function will produce CIDs of varying lengths:

```
$ ipfs add --cid-version 1 --hash sha2-256    -nq cat.jpg | wc -c
60
$ ipfs add --cid-version 1 --hash blake2b-256 -nq cat.jpg | wc -c
63
$ ipfs add --cid-version 1 --hash sha3-512    -nq cat.jpg | wc -c
111
```
:::

### CID to hex

Sometimes, a [hexadecimal](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hexadecimal) representation of raw bytes is prefered for debug purposes.
To get hex for raw `.bytes` of entire CID, one can use built-in support for `base16` encoding and skip the `f` (multibase prefix):

```javascript
> cid.toString('base16')
'f01701220c3c4733ec8affd06cf9e9ff50ffc6bcd2ec85a6170004bb709669c31de94391a'

> cid.toString('base16').substring(1)
'01701220c3c4733ec8affd06cf9e9ff50ffc6bcd2ec85a6170004bb709669c31de94391a' // "cid as hex"
```

> To convert back to a CIDv1, prepend hex value with `f` ([multibase prefix](https://github.com/multiformats/multibase#multibase-table) for lowercase base16).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To convert back to a CIDv1, prepend the hex value with `f` ([multibase prefix](https://github.com/multiformats/multibase#multibase-table) for lowercase base16).
```

Use it as-is (it is a [valid CID](https://ipfs.io/ipfs/f01701220c3c4733ec8affd06cf9e9ff50ffc6bcd2ec85a6170004bb709669c31de94391a)), or convert to different multibase by passing it as an argument to `toString`:

```javascript
> new CID('f' +'01701220c3c4733ec8affd06cf9e9ff50ffc6bcd2ec85a6170004bb709669c31de94391a').toString('base32')
// → bafybeigdyrzt5sfp7udm7hu76uh7y26nf3efuylqabf3oclgtqy55fbzdi
```

::: tip

> [Subdomain gateways](/how-to/address-ipfs-on-web/#subdomain-gateway) convert paths with custom bases like base16 to base32 or base36 in effort to fit a CID in DNS label:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Subdomain gateways](/how-to/address-ipfs-on-web/#subdomain-gateway) convert paths with custom bases like base16 to base32 or base36, in an effort to fit a CID in a DNS label:
```
